UDS Documentation Updates (#328)
defenseunicorns/leapfrogai: website/content/en/docs/local deploy guide/quick_start.md

`whisper` can run without GPU scheduling - just set the `GPU_LIMIT` value to `0`.

If `vllm` is being used with:

- A quantized model, then `QUANTIZATION` must be set to the quantization method (e.g., `awq`, `gptq`, etc.)
- Tensor parallelism for spreading a model's heads across multiple GPUs, then `TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE` must be set to an integer value that:
  a) falls within the number of GPU resources (`nvidia.com/gpu`) that are allocatable in the cluster
  b) divisible by the number of attention heads in the model architecture (if number of heads is 32, then `TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE` could be 2, 4, etc.)

These `vllm` specific environment variables must be set at the model skeleton level or when the model is deployed into the cluster.

## Instructions

Start by cloning the repository which contains the LeapfrogAI UDS bundles:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-leapfrogai.git
```

### CPU

From within the cloned repository, deploy K3D and the LeapfrogAI bundle:

``` bash
cd bundles/cpu/
uds create .

> uds deploy k3d-core-istio-dev:0.14.1      # be sure to check if a newer version exists

Reviewer: This is a public image so that shouldn't be a hard requirement. We could always suggest it as a best practice still.

> uds deploy k3d-core-istio-dev:0.14.1      # be sure to check if a newer version exists

Reviewer 2: Hm, I actually tried it out and I wasn't able to pull it without logging in with a valid PAT.

> uds deploy k3d-core-istio-dev:0.14.1      # be sure to check if a newer version exists

Author: I personally haven't run into that issue, but I can add some text. I'm assuming the PAT needs at least `read:packages` access?

> uds deploy k3d-core-istio-dev:0.14.1      # be sure to check if a newer version exists

Reviewer 2: Hm, I realized my PAT had expired on Friday and I had to make a new PAT and re-login via CLI in order to pull packages from GHCR. It is possible an expired PAT will cause a 403 error purely because it tries to authorize if a PAT is available in cred store. I think this is fine without the PAT!

---
title: Quick Start
type: docs
weight: 2
---

# LeapfrogAI UDS Deployment

The fastest and easiest way to get started with a deployment of LeapfrogAI is by using [UDS](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-core). These quick start instructions show how to deploy LeapfrogAI in either a CPU or GPU-enabled environment.

## Prerequisites

> - [K3D](https://k3d.io/)

Reviewer: k3d implies Docker but their instructions don't have you install docker. we can list `Docker` here to be explicit.

I wouldn't hate it if we didn't though.

Reviewer 3: yeah we probably should list it

- [UDS CLI](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-cli)

GPU considerations (NVIDIA GPUs only):

- NVIDIA GPU must have the most up-to-date drivers installed.
- NVIDIA GPU drivers compatible with CUDA (>=12.2).
- NVIDIA Container Toolkit is available via internet access, pre-installed, or on a mirrored package repository in the air gap.

## Disclaimers

> It is recommended to run UDS as root.

Reviewer: Hmm? I don't think this is true?

Reviewer: As far as I know, the only time root is recommended (required) is when you are installing a `k3s` cluster when running the `zarf init` command.

GPU workloads **_WILL NOT_** run if GPU resources are unavailable to the pod(s). You must provide sufficient NVIDIA GPU scheduling or else the pod(s) will go into a crash loop.

> `whisper` can run without without GPU scheduling - just turn off the `GPU_ENABLED` boolean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`whisper` can run without GPU scheduling - just set the `GPU_LIMIT` value to `0`.
```

If `vllm` is being used with:

- A quantized model, then `QUANTIZATION` must be set to the quantization method (e.g., `awq`, `gptq`, etc.)
- Tensor parallelism for spreading a model's heads across multiple GPUs, then `TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE` must be set to an integer value that:
  a) falls within the number of GPU resources (`nvidia.com/gpu`) that are allocatable in the cluster
  b) divisible by the number of attention heads in the model architecture (if number of heads is 32, then `TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE` could be 2, 4, etc.)

These `vllm` specific environment variables must be set at the model skeleton level or when the model is deployed into the cluster.

## Instructions

Start by cloning the repository which contains the LeapfrogAI UDS bundles:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-leapfrogai.git
```

### CPU

From within the cloned repository, deploy K3D and the LeapfrogAI bundle:

``` bash
cd bundles/cpu/
uds create .

> uds deploy k3d-core-istio-dev:0.14.1

Reviewer: Maybe add a comment to check if a newer version exists.
